README.md, before:

# ♟ Gambit

Gambit is a programming language designed for creating turn-based games with complex rule sets. The compiler generates a playable executable with a built in [Monte-Carlo Tree Search](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Monte_Carlo_tree_search) AI. Gambit's [entity system](/documentation/overview.md#entities) allows game objects to be declared and iteratively extended according to complex rule sets (and avoids the [Deadly Diamond of Death](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Multiple_inheritance#The_diamond_problem)!). It puts an emphasis on functional and declarative programming features to help handle the complexity of games with many rules that interact with one another.

## Development Status

Gambit is still in early development, and isn't usable yet. It's a hobby project I'm working on in my spare time. By all means feel free to contribute code and ideas - [create an issue](/issues/new) to let me know! Questions and feedback are also welcomed!

### Compiler

| Stage                           | Progress       |
| ------------------------------- | -------------- |
| **Parsing**                     | 🟡 In progress |
| **Resolution phase**            | 🟡 In progress |
| **Type and semantics checking** | 🔴 Not started |
| **Code generation**             | 🔴 Not started |
| **MCTS AI generation**          | 🔴 Not started |

### Language Design

You can get a sense of the current state of the language by looking at the [example programs](game), or the _(rough)_ [language documentation](documentation/overview.md).

The core properties of the language (entities, selectors, pure functions, and an emphasis on functional and declarative features) have been established, and are based on my experience trying to develop an AI for the game [Disney© Villainous](https://www.ravensburger.co.uk/en-GB/products/games/experience/villainous). More work is needed to figure out the most helpful set of functional and declarative features. The largest unsolved challenge is how Gambit should handle [hidden state](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Perfect_information). I plan to finalize the syntax only after the semantics of the language have been figured out, to avoid reworking it again later.

## Repository Contents

-   **[documentation/overview.md](documentation/overview.md)**: How to use the language and it's various features. (Currently, this is less of an accurate, helpful document - and more of a place for me to keep notes!)
-   **[game](game)**: Popular games written in Gambit.
-   **[compiler](compiler)**: The Gambit compiler written in C++. The built executable is _(will be)_ able to compile Gambit projects into a playable executable.
-   **[editor/vscode](editor/vscode)**: A Visual Studio Code extension for the Gambit Language

Commit message:

documentation: Split up 'overview.md' into reference guides
I realised that, at this point in the project, trying to maintain one large reference document with organised sections, concise writing, and solid explanations, is just a lot to ask - particularly given that all the details are in constant flux anyway. Splitting up individual features into their own files and providing more 'cut-and-dry' reference information I figure is probably better suited for iterating the language.

Eventually, I definitely want to create much more friendly documentation that would be helpful for someone looking to learn and/or get familiar with the language. That will probably be easier to do once the core of the language is better established though.

README.md, after:

# ♟ Gambit

**Gambit is a programming language designed for implementing turn-based games with complex rule sets.**

It uses an approach to creating [entities](/documentation/entity.md) and their [properties](/documentation/property.md) meant for modelling complex game state and the effects of layered rule sets. The language combines functional and imperative features so that different games can be modelled however is most natural for the game in question.

Gambit is still in early development. It's a hobby project I'm working on in my spare time. My ultimate goal is is to have the compiler generate not only a playable executable, but one with a built in [Monte-Carlo Tree Search](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Monte_Carlo_tree_search) AI player! (The project actually started as an attempt to create such an AI for [Disney© Villainous](https://www.ravensburger.co.uk/en-GB/products/games/experience/villainous), but now I'm _many_ tangents in!)

You can get a sense of the current state of the language by looking at the [example programs](game), or the _very rough_ [documentation](documentation). By all means feel free to contribute code and ideas - [create an issue](/issues/new) or pull request! Questions and feedback are also welcomed! If you're at all interested in the project, I'd love to hear from you. :)

## Development Status

| Aspect                              | Status              |
| ----------------------------------- | ------------------- |
| **Language Design**                 | 🟡 In progress      |
| **Language Documentation**          | 🟠 Rough references |
| **Parsing**                         | 🟡 In progress      |
| **Type Checking & Static Analysis** | 🟡 In progress      |
| **Playable Program Generation**     | 🔴 Not started      |
| **MCTS AI Generation**              | 🔴 Not started      |

## Repository Contents

-   **[documentation](documentation)**: References and guides on the language and it's features.
-   **[game](game)**: Example games written in Gambit.
-   **[compiler](compiler)**: The Gambit compiler written in C++.
-   **[test](test)**: Sample programs for testing the compiler.
-   **[editor/vscode](editor/vscode)**: A Visual Studio Code extension for the Language.
